#lump(s)	usage				status	author
#
ammnum[0-9]	status bar tiny ammo digits	done	ajapted
bossback	doom2 cast background		done	ajapted
brdr_*		box border			done	ajapted
credit		credits screen
cwilv00		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv01		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv02		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv03		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv04		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv05		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv06		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv07		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv08		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv09		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv10		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv11		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv12		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv13		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv14		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv15		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv16		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv17		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv18		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv19		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv20		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv21		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv22		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv23		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv24		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv25		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv26		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv27		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv28		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv29		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv30		level name graphics		done	ajapted
cwilv31		level name graphics		done	ajapted
end[0-6]	THE END doom1 end animation
endpic		doom1 final end screen
help		doom2 help screen		done	cph
help1		doom1 help screen		done	cph
help2		shareware please-reg hype scrn	assigned	cph
interpic	intermission screen		done	espi
m_detail	menu "graphic detail:"		done	ajapted
m_disopt	menu "display options"		done	ajapted
m_disp		menu "display"			done	ajapted
m_doom		game logo			done	ajapted
m_endgam	menu "end game"			done	ajapted
m_epi1		menu name of ep1		done	ajapted
m_epi2		menu name of ep2		done	ajapted
m_epi3		menu name of ep3		done	ajapted
m_epi4		menu name of ep4		done	ajapted
m_episod	menu "Which episode?"		done	ajapted
m_gdhigh	menu "high"			done	ajapted
m_gdlow		menu "low"			done	ajapted
m_hurt		menu "hurt me plenty"		done	ajapted
m_jkill		menu ITYTD			done	ajapted
m_lgttl		menu "Load Game"		done	ajapted
m_loadg		menu "LOAD GAME"		done	ajapted
m_lscntr	menu savegame selector mid	done	ajapted
m_lsleft	menu savegame selector mid	done	ajapted
m_lsrght	menu savegame selector mid	done	ajapted
m_messg		menu "Messages:"		done	ajapted
m_msens		menu "Mouse sensitivity"	done	ajapted
m_msgoff	menu "Off"			done	ajapted
m_msgon		menu "ON"			done	ajapted
m_musvol	menu "Music Volume"		done	ajapted
m_newg		menu "NEW GAME"			done	ajapted
m_ngame		menu "New Game"			done	ajapted
m_nmare		menu "Nightmare!"		done	ajapted
m_option	menu "Options"			done	ajapted
m_optttl	menu "OPTIONS"			done	ajapted
m_pause		menu "Pause"			done	ajapted
m_quitg		menu "Quit Game"		done	ajapted
m_rdthis	menu "Read This!"		done	ajapted
m_rough		menu "Hey, not too rough."	done	ajapted
m_saveg		menu "Save game"		done	ajapted
m_scrnsz	menu "Screen Size"		done	ajapted
m_sfxvol	menu "Sfx Volume"		done	ajapted
m_sgttl		menu "SAVE GAME"		done	ajapted
m_skill		menu "Choose Skill Level"	done	ajapted
m_skull1	menu selector			done	isle
m_skull2	menu selector (animated)	done	isle
m_svol		menu "Sound Volume"		done	ajapted
m_therml	menu thermometer left		done	isle
m_thermm	menu thermometer middle		done	isle
m_thermo	menu thermometer marker		done	isle
m_thermr	menu thermometer right		done	isle
m_ultra		menu UV				done	ajapted
pfub[12]	doom1 end animation
starms		status bar weapons		done	mewse
stbar		status bar			done	mewse
stcdrom		cdrom icon			done	fraggle
stcfn*		messages font			done	jayextee
stdisk		disk icon			done	fraggle
stfb[0-3]	player head status bar bgs	done	mewse
stfdead0	face - dead			done	scuba steve
stfevl[0-4]	grinning			done	scuba steve
stfgod0		face immune			done	scuba steve
stfkill0	gritted teeth			done	scuba steve
stfouch0	pain				done	scuba steve
stfst*		face normal, various angles	done	scuba steve
stftl[0-4]0	face turn left			done	scuba steve
stftr[0-4]0	face turn right			done	scuba steve
stgnum[0-9]	grey digits			done	mewse
stkeys[0-2]	status bar keycards		done	mewse
stkeys[3-5]	status bar skullkeys		done	mewse
stpb[0-3]	status bar player backgrounds	done	mewse
sttminus	status minus			done	mewse
sttnum[0-9]	large ammo/health digits	done	mewse
sttprcnt	status bar %			done	mewse
stysnum[0-9]	small yellow digits		done	mewse
titlepic	initial splash screen		done	espi
victory2	doom1 end-of-ep2 victory screen
wia0*		win screen ep1 map animations	done	(empty)
wia1*		win screen ep1 map animations	done	(empty)
wia2*		win screen ep1 map animations	done	(empty)
wibp[1-4]	doom1 grey "P1" etc (?)		done	ajapted
wicolon		win screen :			done	ajapted
wienter		win screen "Entering"		done	ajapted
wif		win screen "Finished"		done	ajapted
wifrgs		win screen "Frags"		done	ajapted
wikilrs		win screen "killers"		done	ajapted
wilv00		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv01		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv02		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv03		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv04		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv05		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv06		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv07		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv08		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv10		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv11		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv12		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv13		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv14		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv15		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv16		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv17		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv18		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv20		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv21		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv22		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv23		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv24		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv25		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv26		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv27		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv28		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv30		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv31		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv32		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv33		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv34		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv35		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv36		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv37		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wilv38		doom 1 level names		done	ajapted
wimap0		doom1 ep1 intermission map	done	ajapted
wimap1		doom1 ep2 intermission map	done	ajapted
wimap2		doom1 ep3 intermission map	done	ajapted
wiminus		win screen "-"			done	ajapted
wimstar		win screen "YOU"		done	ajapted
wimstt		win screen "Total"		done	ajapted
winum[0-9]	win screen digits		done	ajapted
wiostf		win screen "F."			done	ajapted
wiosti		win screen "items"		done	ajapted
wiostk		win screen "kills"		done	ajapted
wiosts		win screen secrets		done	ajapted
wip[1-4]	red "P1" thru "P4" (?)		done	ajapted
wipar		win "par"			done	ajapted
wipcnt		win %				done	ajapted
wiscrt2		win "secret"			done	ajapted
wisplat		win screen doom1 splat		done	(empty)
wisucks		win screen "sucks"		done	ajapted
witime		win screen "time"		done	ajapted
wiurh[01]	win screen u'r'here animation	done	(empty)
wivctms		win screen "victims"		done	ajapted

